== README

These instructions are for running the project on an Ubuntu virtual machine.

To begin with, we have to get your database created and running.

To start,

	bundle

The project requires user 'bob' to function, and this user needs permission to create and manage the database.

So, to create this user,

	sudo -u postgres createuser bob

	sudo -u postgres psql 
		alter role bob with createdb;
		alter role bob with createrole;
		\q

To create the database for the first time:

	bundle exec rake db:create

(You only need to do this the first time.)

Next, you need to create the tables within the database. This is done with 'migrate'.

	bundle exec rake db:migrate

('Migrate' here refers to changing the database from one form to another, which carries the data with it. As it is developed, new data and features are required. The migration referred to is of the data from one form of the database to another.)

Now, we want to 'seed' the database with our data.

	bundle exec rake db:seed

Your database should exist now with all your invertebrate data.

(Both the test and the API's data are created here.)

You can check this in PostGreSQL by typing

	psql

Then in the PSQL environment,

		\l 

to list all databases you have, and

		\connect invertebrates_api_development

To investigate the questions made.

Now you have your database.

We now must start the API running.

This is much easier!

Just type into the terminal:

	rails server

And the API is hosted on localhost:3000/api.

View the questions in localhost:3000/api/questions.

If this is one big lump of text, it's because it's all in JSON, stored as a 'hash'. Look up a JSON viewer extension for your browser.